# NOTE HISTORY
# 2018-12-16

## INSTALLS
 - [Vundle](https://github.com/VundleVim/Vundle.vim)
   - [Tabular](https://github.com/godlygeek/tabular)
   - [Vim Markdown](https://github.com/gabrielelana/vim-markdown)
   - [Vim Markdown, Plasticboy](https://github.com/plasticboy/vim-markdown) 

## NOTES
 - Getting more serious about using tmux and vim to structure my workflow today!
 - Needed the break to be selfish and compute **my wayyy~**
 - OK, Tabular looks gorgeous.  Vundle and Tabular are both installed now; :Tab/| should align:

## TABULAR TEST
| My        | name    | is    | mud     |
| My        | friends | don't | care    |
| When      | I       | go    | without |
| Underwear |
 
## MARKDOWN TEST
 - I'm less impressed with gabrielelana's vim-markdown highlighter; plasticboy seems to have
   a more subscribed one.
 - ... Switching in vundle...
 - So far the plasticboy version looks great.  I am just struggling with `C-i cr` for opening a newline versus just `o`.  I found a key mapping to jump to start or end of line while in insert mode, going to try that out now.
 - Perfect!  Adding new entries to this file is as simple as `G i C-e cr`. ... That must look insane to anyone who may read this.  Oh well.

# 2018-12-17

## INSTALLS
 - ~/.vimrc/syntax highlighting

## KPMP-530
 - Had to clean house on `kpmp-dvc2`; purged a bunch of old kernel update versions in `/boot` so I could install `zip` and upload to delphinus-dev
 - Transferred to dev.  Testing locally...
 - Wow, testing locally ended up being a pain.  I had to re-create the patients.json collection, generate UUIDs for each WSI, and all the format-munging involved.
 - This is exactly the kind of process that is tedious to do manually, tedious to script, but once scripted is magically automatic.  We need to get there badly.
 - Cleaning up my intermediate work in wsi-pipeline now...
 - Aaand done

## KPMP-554, Started
 - Venn Diagram component timebox
 - 30m spent on reviewing D3 concepts, layout implementations (see today's reading)
 - Looks like a combination of the venn.js library for layout and the built-in histogram component will serve our needs for the Atlas v0.01

## KPMP-545, Done
 - Create project repo with empty web project
 - Done

## KPMP-546, Done
 - Create a minimal docker-compose for the project
 - Done

## KPMP-546, Done
 - Create minimal docker-compose in heavens-docker for microscopium
 - Done

## KPMP-547, Done
 - Create a minimal nephron page
 - Done

## KPMP-548, Done
 - Create a minimal dataviz page
 - Done

## KPMP-549, Started
 - Implement state with redux to retain information on navigation
 - Putting down until I have better digested Raji data for state model

# 2018-12-18

## KPMP-549, Hold
 - Redux state navigation between schematic and dataviz pages

## KPMP-551, Almost Done
 - Parse the Raji data to something usable
 - EOD 12/18, a working wsi-worker repository is generating usable JSON!
 - All I'm missing is the set generation function - doing that now.

### MICROSCOPIUM-WORKER
 - [json-simple](https://code.google.com/archive/p/json-simple/downloads)
 - There are many genes to many clusters.
 - Per gene and per cluster there are 1 pVal and 1 avgLogFc.
 - Data interrogation goals
   - Make it easy to show agreement and disagreement
     - Which genes are in which cells according to each TIS
   - Make it easy to see where we guessed on associations
     - Cell types to nephron schematic structures
   - Make it easy to see where we did not guess
     - Cell types that did not fit nephron schematic structures

### MICROSCOPIUM DATA MODEL
#### SCHEMATIC MAP (READ)
|InVision Structure|InVision Cell Type|Schema Cell Type|UMICH Cluster Name|UCDSF Cluster Name|UCSD Cluster Name|Meta|

#### GENE TO CELL MAP, PER TIS (READ)
|Gene|PValAdj|AvgLogFc|Cell|

#### CELL TO GENE MAP (GEN)
 - Index: Invision Cell Type
 - Contents: array of unique Gene Names with their p values by TIS

#### GENE TO CELL MAP (GEN)
 - Index: Gene Name
 - Contents: array of unique Invision Cell Types with their p values by TIS

### MICROSCOPIUM GRAPHING STRATEGY
#### VENN DIAGRAM
 - Given an Invision Cell Type, retrieve contents from Cell to Gene Map
 - With each gene, iterate to count by each set and intersection, yielding this data structure below.

{
  cells: {
    InVisionCellType1: {
      sets: [
        { sets: ['UMICH SC'], size: 100 },
        { sets: ['USCD SN'], size: 100 },
        { sets: ['UCSF SC'], size: 100 },
        { sets: ['UMICH SC', 'USCD SN'], size: 100 },
        { sets: ['UMICH SC', 'UCSF SC'], size: 100 },
        { sets: ['USCD SN', 'UCSF SC'], size: 100 },
        { sets: ['UMICH SC', 'UCSF SN', 'UCSF SC', size: 100] }
      ],
      rows: {
        Gene1: { gene: 'Gene1', cVal: 8.2, 'UMICH SC': 0.01, 'UCSF SC': 0.005, 'USCD SN': false },
        Gene2: { gene: 'Gene2', cVal: 8.2, 'UMICH SC': 0.01, 'UCSF SC': 0.005, 'USCD SN': false },
	Gene3: { ... }
	}
    },
    InVisionCellType2: { ... }
  },

  genes: {
    Gene1: {
      rows: [
        { cell: 'InVisionCellType1', 'UMICH SC': 0.01, 'UCSF SC': 0.005, 'USCD SN': false  },
        { cell: 'InVisionCellType2', 'UMICH SC': 0.01, 'UCSF SC': 0.005, 'USCD SN': false  },
	{ ... }
      ]
    }
  }
}

# 2018-12-19
## KPMP-551, Done
 - Writing Venn.js set generators in microscopium-woker...
 - Took a bit more down and dirty lodash than I anticipated but it is now done

## KPMP-550, Done
 - Generate JSON mapping the structures to cell types
 - Creating mapping...
 - Created!

## KPMP-549, Done
 - Adding linkage from schematic page to datavzi page.
 - This is tricky, as it involves implementing all my actions, reducers, and containers for redux to behave.
 - Most of the way there already...  I have toggleable state working, but not rendering on the page...
 - ... Aaand done. Redux fully implemented to the extent I should need.  State is now passing cell selection and site selections.

## KPMP-563, Started
 - Implement data table for selected cell genes
 - The JSON should be drop-in good behavior...  Testing out now with super minimal react table...
 - ... Minimal react table sort method implemented, columns implemented - works out of the box.  Gorgeous.  Still a few more decoration features and above-the-fold sizing to do.

# 2018-12-20

## KPMP-563, On Hold
 - Starting KPMP-562 to ensure basic Venn is in place before refining table features

## KPMP-562, Started
 - Adding Venn.js dependency and a dirt simple on-screen version with data...
 - ... Adding propTypes validation for selectedSets and selectedSites ...
 - ... Minimal implementation is coded but I cannot test.  D3 versions are not clearly in evidence.
 - Going to pin my D3 version to the last version of 4, which I think is the last version supported by Venn.js.
 - [D3 Version History](https://github.com/d3/d3/releases?after=v5.0.0)
 - D3 version 4.10.0 seems to match the Venn.js version, at first blush, if I'm reading the Venn.js commit history and script tags correctly.

# 2018-12-21

## KPMP-562, On Hold
 - More to do in cleaning this venn up / make it interactive, but I'm now pivoting toward deployment-related tasks.
 - But first!  Data!

## KPMP-595, Done
 - Regenerating atlas.json with new CSV data...
 - ... Regenerated.  Merged into microscopium-web, validated, and merged into develop on that project.
 - ... Merged develop into venn branch KPMP-562.

# 2018-12-22

## KPMP-598, Done
 - Integrate microscopium-web into heavens-docker using subdirectory strategy shown in delphinus-web
 - ... Updated base path configs in microscopium-web; only really needed to set the homepage in package.json
 - HashRouter doesn't need a base path or it adds redundant "atlas" path fragments in the URL
 - Also had to update the delphinus docker-compose to point correctly to the build folder for microscopium; PR submitted
 - Calling this ticket done

## KPMP-562, Done
 - Having problems importing components after changing base path scheme with KPMP-598. Researching why imports are missing...
 - ... Component rendering woes have been resolved.  Don't remember exactly how I did it.
 - Updated styling on the site selectors, added legend colors to match venn diagram, updated readability of font labels on venn...
 - ... Did not make venn hoverable/interactive at all.  Dropping that from scope for time being as we have no clear requirements.
 - Data clearly needs to be revisited; venn set totals are not being calculated correctly at all.  Defect card has already been opened.

## KPMP-563, Done
 - Added missing table columns and headers
 - Relaid out the grid on the dataviz screen to be closer to comps
 - Calling the table feature "done" barring cosmetic issues

## KPMP-556, Started
 - This is technically a timebox for making the nephron hover component behave, but I'm going to use it to lay out the nephron page first
 - ... Fleshed out a lot of the missing UI elements that make the atlas look similar to the DPR

# 2018-12-23

## KPMP-556, Done
 - I have some scratch/skunk assets to dummy up the component logic of the nephron hover stuff
 - I will now determine how to appropriately map these in JSON
 - With further thought, I will take the following strategy:
   - Under every object with hoverable image contents, store an array of Strings named images
   - Each image in the array corresponds to a CSS class defined in index.scss that specifies all style properties (left, top, bg image, etc)
   - Expected behavior is that on-hover of the generated on-screen element, those images will transition on and others will hide
   - When rendering the component for the first time and preparing the DOM, we will use [_.union](https://lodash.com/docs/4.17.11#union) iteratively to build a list of the images to be appended to the image hover container
 - ONE MORE SIGNIFICANT CHANGE: structures will gain a "cell" property, indicating the cell they correspond to when they are clicked.

# 2018-12-24

## KPMP-560, On Hold
 - Schematic JSON and component page updated with new structure for images
 - ... Implemented CSS rules to match JSON components
 - ... Implemented image asset pre-loading based on image names from schematic
 - ... Implemented non-optimized graphics for all available schematic images (a few are missing: t-cells, arteriole, peritubular-capillary
 - ... Implemented onMouseEnter events to reveal assets with simple toggle
 - !!! I removed the cell label names from the diagram because they would be horribly aliased in a web browser; I need to recreate those labels
 - Stopping for now so I can deploy to qa-demo

DONE FOR TODAY!

# 2019-01-02

## JIRA CARD REVIEW

## KPMP-596, Done
 - Fixed the venn counting by ripping and rewriting the method; it works now
 - Created a data validation on the Podocyte from data imported on 1/2/2019; looks good

## KPMP-602, Blocked
 - Started data import and validation, but can't complete this ticket without gene expression tables

# 2019-01-03

## ATLAS DEMO NOTES
 - Cell Site
   - Refer to cards and fix missing cell type
 - Venn
   - Label colors and white outline are difficult to read
 - Data Table
   - Pre-populate the P Value with + to show the intersection of all sets
   - Sort the table by P Value on all sites in ascending order (0 first, 1 last)
   - Add download button and make it work
   - Add instructions above table for 1) how to sort, 2) how to filter, 3) sending feedback
 - Underlying Data
   - Validate where there are discrepant gene names by checking genes against available versions of human genomes (discrepant genes across versions may not be detectable)

## KPMP-566, Done
 - Release plan written; copies Delphinus release plan and iterates to include artifacts for Microscopium

## KPMP-558, Done
 - All nephron schematic art has already been implemented that I'm aware of, but more might be coming; I'm not sure
 - Marking blocked and assigning elsewhere until/if asset updates are received
 - Closing and covering this change under KPMP-607

## KPMP-559, Done/Won't Do
 - Same disposition as KPMP-558, so I'm handling it as a duplicate

## KPMP-607, Done
 - Fix rollover behavior for macrophage, monocyte, and t-cell
 - Obtain arteriole art asset and implement with correct rollover
 - ... Added fix for interstitium, which was also missing (image is named and labeled 'fibroblast')
 - ... Done all except for the arteriole.  Will complete when I have access to Photoshop
 - UPDATE 1/4: Arteriole has been removed from the data set; we no longer need the asset

## KPMP-565, Done
 - Add Download button; refer to comps
 - Can't refer to comps; link is down?
 - ... Built the button; included indicator with number of rows shown
 - Download now also works.  Used CSVLink component from react-csv library; it's not a great lib, has a vulnerability; should not keep beyond demo scope

# 2019-01-04

## KPMP-602, Started/On Hold
 - Create and import cell expression data
 - ... On hold as I work on layout changes

## KPMP-614, Done
 - Removed word "cell" from data viz title page
 - Added header and subheader treatment
 - Added "Integrated" button to data viz button bar

# 2019-01-07

## KPMP-611, Started/Paused
 - Add on-screen instructions
 -   Genes are counted in the intersections where more than one TIS considered the gene's expression signfiicant.
                        The regions of the diagram show where the Tissue Interrogation Sites (TIS) overlap in their findings. 

 - ... Done

## KPMP-612, Done
 - Full data refresh

# 2019-01-08

## RESEARCH FELLOW MEETING
 - Outline of Potential Papers.docx
   - Paper #19: Discrete data in AP pathology diagnosis
     - Question of how we capture discrete data from summary (synoptic) reports
     - If pathologists typically render an analysis as 4 paragraphs, how can we extract entity data from that?
     - [mIntuitive](https://www.mtuitive.com/)
     - [Hematogones](https://hematogones.com/gi-path/gi-bx), a site for generating "structured reporting" quickly
   - Paper #23:

# 2019-01-14

## GITLAB SETUP
 - Ultimately it was an issue in the ssh config file
   - IdentityFile must point to the private key
   - User must be `git`
 - 

## ORION-WEB TEST
 - Pulling...
 - Installing watchman via `brew up && brew install watchman`
 - Tests now running but failing.
 - Source of issue found: Node 8.9.1 [began interpreting time zones differently](https://github.com/marklogic/node-client-api/issues/475).

# 2019-01-16

## PATH INFORMATICS SERVERS
 - cloud.path.med.umich.edu
 - Existing kpmp group has been assigned over to me
 - New servers: path-kpmp-{1,2,3,4}, internal IPs *.*.*.22{4,5,6,7}
 - Public IPs are now managed through a tool called NetPlan
 - We have an external IP set aside that we can assign to one of our machines
 - We could also assign public IPs to each machine, differently though
 - netplan.io/examples
 - 

## WSI VIEWER MEETING
 - No DB behind this
 - No user auth for adding annotations
 - All the image servers (heavy server and heavy client for SVS chunks) load-balance over storage
 - Questions
   - What costing has KPMP experienced using AWS for hosting DZIs?
   - Kansas City project as our pilot

# 2019-10-17

## RETRO/KICKOFF
 - We have example data uploaded from every TIS already
 - We can analyze those and determine what data we can synthesize from these and whether they meet our requirements
 - we can read into them to see what validation requirements we can impose (such as genome, canonical names, etc)
 - This allows us to design an understanding of the processes we'd need to require of TISes for data they provide
 - TALK TO EVREN! He is the data integrator, he's accountable for how we'll integrate this data and how it will be used
 - **WRITE EXPLORATORY CARDS FOR THIS SPRINT!**
 - Focus on driving leadership into these (seemingly disjointed) teams!
   - DVC
     - Software
       - Design
       - Outside app integration
   - Data integration (Evren)
   - TISes
     - Readiness and compliance
     - Tech producing teams
     - Outside app integration
   - NIH
     - Prioritization

## KPMP-651, Done
 - TAUB LIB 6432 as the room
 - Scheduling retros for first Tuesday after a F2F
 - Scheduling pro for second Tuesday after a F2F
 - Done!  We have something like 12 week-long sprints before our next F2F.  Gotta decide what we want to have done by then. 

## RACHEL DATA CURATION MEETING
 - TransMart curation example
   - Data comes from Arbor Research
   - Neptune is a consortium that takes longitudinal patient data
   - Quarterly they update the data
     - More visit data from existing patients
     - More detailed data from previous visits
     - Some additional data about patients specifically
   - Data is sent as a complete refresh, not an incremental/delta
   - Rachel reloads the data as one big payload
   - Sometimes new columns are added, which requires work to fix workflows
     - We usually know there are new records when apps consuming the data break
   - Notification of new data is sent to Rachel from Box
   - Also watching this folder is another data guy (Jonathan Troost) who does his validations on this input data
     - If he finds wrongdoing by how he measures it, he'll tell Rachel to stop
     - Then he'll go back to Neptune and ask for inputs
   - Rachel can also determine if something is busted, but it takes her long
     - The whole process can take a couple days, with the help of automation and pentaho scripts
   - Rachel uses master Process Document for doing data import for Neptune
     - Importing dependent files
     - SAFs (Standard Analytical File) get imported (the collection of data that is, ostensibly, the real payload)
     - Check headers of inputs to ensure they pass Pentaho input validation
     - Checking value ranges of inputs
     - Checking inputs to see if "Yes" "No" "I don't know" are present, or just "Yes" and "No"
     - In general, looking for outliers in data and the structure of data; if we find outliers, they should be sensible
   - Pentaho loads up the input files for Neptune (there are seven) and if they pass validation, they generate 3 output files
     - Patients collection
     - Visits collection
     - Luminex (???)
   - These collections are validated, formatted, and ready to load into TransMart
   - Other Pentaho processes do similar steps of validation and data generation for other output collections (such as biospecimens)
   - Rachel derives mappings of the input columns to their output location in the TransMart data representation tree
   - Rachel uses her spreadsheet of derived mappings to help answer questions
     - Questions come to her from researchers or data science folks who don't know what a column in Neptune is for
       - "This column is blood pressure.  Is it sitting or standing?"  etc.
   - She also uses this mapping to identify which columns are touched by which Pentaho process
   - For other process (Pregnancy data) she does the work in Excel
     - Generating columns as derived data in the row
     - Formatting columns
   - The colmapping file is the first 4 or so columns in the mapping file that give TransMart its hierarchy of attributes to be queried
   - Also gives it the source file and column name that goes with the destination attribute in the hierarchy
   - In TransMart, you use the generated attributes to create visualizations
     - You don't get to save those visualizations to generate them again later...
     - You can, however, save a list of genes you're interested in
   - Asked Rachel about the pros and cons of her process with the master Excel sheet
     - She likes it better in Excel than Sheets; Excel is more powerful
     - She does not have safeguards for accidentally dropped columns
   - What happens when a new column gets added?
     - First decide if you want it to show up in TransMart
     - Then find which input file it'll be added to, and all downstream Pentaho tasks, and inject the header there
   - What happens when a column gets renamed?
     - Similar steps, OR change the source file.  Judgment call
   - What does gene expression data look like?
     - A CSV file
     - Identifiers (in this case, names of expressed genes) running down the first column of each row
     - Sample names running across the top as headers
     - Cells are readings (which may be P Values, Fold Changes, etc)
   - Platforms are also involved
     - A platform is a set of measured genes in a data set (or consumed by an application...?)
     - It maps the names of genes according to different genomes to app-specific IDs for those genes
   - Questions about joins
     - Do we have shared column headers across files?  Mapping files between input files to indicate common values/joins?
     - How do we relate data across the input files and rows to allow querying inside the system?

## PENTAHO
 - Got the GUI client (spoon)
 - Got the source files from M-Box
 - Got the reference data from the data lake

## KPMP-625, Started
 - Get the GA working in circinus on dev

# 2019-01-20
 - [Found this article](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10158508/lose-vim-colorscheme-in-tmux-mode) that helped my older macbook run vim colors in tmux with the command `set -g default-terminal "screen-256color"` 

# 2019-01-22

## KPMP-659, Started
 - What a beast.  The docker volume mapping we have mounts two projects as subdirectories of a third mounted volume.
 - That third mounted volume is the build folder for our webroot landing page.  When we rebuild that page, the first two virtual mounts go away.
 - To fix this, I had to mount the webroot in another directory that could mutate without affecting the other two.
 - To point requests into that folder from the nominal URL webroot, I needed to employ Apache mod_rewrite rules.
 - The Apache images we use encode mod_rewrite into their virtualhost config files.  These rules prevent me from doing the rewrite I need.
 - So I have to rebuild the apache images to split their rewrite rules into a separate file that I can safely overmount with my container volumes.
 - This keeps the virtual host configuration separate from the rewrite configuration.
 - To test this, I had to refactor my subfolder-mounted project (the Atlas Demo) to get away from React hash routing into regular path routing.
 - With that refactor done as of this moment, I am now finally able to verify that my configuration remapping at the Apache image level is working.
 - ... Except that, if you try to deep-link into a URL with Router configured (reloading the page completely), the Apache rewrite rules kick in.
 - ... They do not recognize the file and serve a 404.
 - ... I suspect the last change is to have app-specific rewrites into the subdirectory index.html, such as dpr/index.html and atlas/index.html.
 - ... As it happens, the file as requested returns a 404, which is to be expected; it is neither a file nor a folder, and it is requesting a subdir path.
 - ... To be continued.
 -
